---
title: "Machine learning approach in predicting GlutoPeak test parameters from image data with AutoML and transfer learning"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-10-01-take
excerpt: 'This study introduces a novel machine learning methodology for predicting GlutoPeak test parameters from image data, leveraging AutoKeras and transfer learning.'
date: 2023-10-01
venue: 'Heliyon'
slidesurl: 
paperurl: 'https://www.cell.com/heliyon/pdf/S2405-8440(23)07730-7.pdf'
citation: 
---

This study introduces a novel machine learning methodology for predicting GlutoPeak test pa-
rameters from image data, leveraging AutoKeras and transfer learning. The GlutoPeak test is a
tool used in the baking industry to evaluate the properties of flour, based on its gluten strength
and elasticity. Our research aimed to devise an efficient and cost-effective technique for quan-
tifying the gluten properties of wheat varieties. We aimed to accomplish this by predicting the
GlutoPeak test results with convolutional neural network (CNN) models, utilizing the benefits of
transfer learning and AutoKeras. AutoKeras is a public code repository capable of automating
neural architecture search and hyperparameter tuning. The ResNet101 model, when trained with
the Adam optimizer, achieved the highest accuracy of 0.5765 in the 2-class prediction. Mean-
while, the ResNet101 model trained with the SGD optimizer reached the highest accuracy of
0.4362 in the 4-class prediction. The outcomes of this study illustrate the possibility in using
machine learning and deep learning techniques for predicting GlutoPeak test parameters from
image data. This offers a faster and more cost-effective approach for evaluating gluten quality in
wheat varieties.